ARMORED TEXT FILES

Everything Ballast sends or receives is an armored text file. Eight kinds:
PROFILE, TEST, RELEASE, CANCEL, APPROVAL, REPORT, SHEET, BOOK. Ballast runs
on these; there is nothing else.

IT IS A GBO
A General Bulletin Order is a page of plain text. It has a number, it says
who it is to, it is transmitted by whatever means is at hand -- read over
the radio, printed at the terminal, handed across a desk -- and the crew
repeats it back to prove they copied it correctly. The medium never
matters. The words do.

An armored text file is the same idea for a computer. It is a block of
plain text with a beginning line and an ending line, a few readable
headers, and a body that is only letters, digits, + / and =. It can be
transmitted by whatever means is at hand, and it carries its own
repeat-back: a sha256 in the header that the receiver recomputes.

WHAT ONE LOOKS LIKE

  -----BEGIN BALLAST CANCEL-----
  version: 1
  title: Test 1 - Definitions and signals
  train: Crew 123456
  grade: 91%
  release: 4c1f0a9e2b7d3e10
  sha256: 9a0b...e3c1

  eyJ2IjoxLCJraW5kIjoiY2FuY2VsIiwidGVzdCI6Ilh...
  -----END BALLAST CANCEL-----

The headers are for people: anyone can see what it is, who it is for and
whether it arrived intact, without opening it. The body is the file
proper -- JSON, signed, and encrypted where it must be -- written out as
base64 so that nothing between sender and receiver can mangle it.

WHY IT IS GOOD
- It goes anywhere text goes: an email attachment, an email body, a chat
  message, a shared folder, a USB stick, a printout, a photograph of a
  printout. Ballast finds the block inside whatever surrounds it, so a
  file pasted into the middle of an email still opens.
- It survives everything that breaks binary files: mail gateways, line
  ending changes, copy and paste, "smart" quotes, being typed back in.
- It is inert. A text file cannot run, and Ballast never executes what it
  reads; the text is parsed as data and drawn as text.
- It is auditable. IT can read every header of every file with any text
  editor, and hash the file, without being able to read the test inside.
- It is durable. Text is the one format that will still open in 2056.

WHAT THE ENVELOPE DOES NOT DO
The envelope does not keep secrets; the body does. A TEST body holds
every item encrypted under its own key; a RELEASE is sealed to one RTC
and signed by one crew member; a CANCEL is sealed to one crew member and
signed by the RTC. Copy an armored file to a hundred people and only the
ones it was sealed to can open it, and the sha256 tells everyone else
that it was not touched.
